# house_rocket

The objective of the project is to recommend solutions for the business through Insights generated by an Exploratory Data Analysis. The project cover 5 steps of the Data Science problem solving roadmap, which are: The Business Question, Business Understanding, Data Cleaning and Data Exploration.

# 1.0 Business Context (ficticious)

House Rocket is a digital platform whose business model is the purchase and sale of real estate using technology.
Their main strategy is to buy good homes in great locations at low prices and then resell them later at higher prices. The greater the difference between buying and selling, the greater the company's profit and therefore the greater its revenue.

# 2.0 Challenge

You are a Data Scientist contracted by the company to help you find the best business opportunities in the real estate market. The CEO of House Rocket would like to maximize the company's revenue by finding good business opportunities.

# 3.0 Business Assumption

date: sales data

price: selling price

rooms: number of rooms

bathrooms: number of bathrooms

sqft_living: size of the living area in feet²

sqft_lot: lot size in feet²

floors: number of floors

Waterfront: '1' if the property is on the beachfront, '0' if not.

view: an index from 0 to 4 of how good the view of the property is (imagine 0 for a property with a view of a dirty alley and 4 for a property with a view of a beautiful park)
condition: condition of the house, with values ​​from 1 to 5

grade: classification by the quality of the material of the house. Buildings with better materials usually cost more

sqft_above: ft² above ground

sqft_basement: ft² below ground

yr_built: year of construction

yrrenovated: year of_renovated. '0' if never improved

Zip Code: 5-digit zip code

lat, long: latitude and longitude

squft_livng15: average size of the 15 closest houses, in feet²

sqft_lot15: average lot size of the 15 closest houses, in feet²

# 4.0 Solution Strategy

The strategy adopted was the following:

Step 01. Data Description: I searched for NAs, checked data types (and adapted some of them for analysis) and presented a statistical description.

Step 02. Feature Engineering: New features were created to make possible a more thorough analysis.

Step 03. Exploratory Data Analysis: I performed univariate, bivariate and multivariate data analysis, obtaining statistical properties of each of them, correlations and testing hypothesis (the most important of them are detailed in the following section).

Step 04. Interpretate and Tradution to-business: The analysis performance is converted into business values.

# 4.0 Top 3 Insights

## **H1**. Preços dos imóveis aumentam mais com o número de andares ao números de banheiros
**VERDADEIRA** Números de banheiros impactam mais o valor ao número de andares

## **H2**. Preços dos imóveis aumentam mais com o tamanho do porão ao números de andares.
**VERDADEIRA** O tamanho do porão influencia mais o aumento de preço ao número de andares.

## H3. Preços dos imóveis aumentam mais quando possuem vista para o mar ao número de banheiros no imóvel.
**VERDADEIRA** O atributo ''vista para o mar'' impacta mais no preço ao número de banheiros do imóvel.

# 5.0 Conclusion

First, I found a business opportunity by locating properties that are priced below the local median. Then I identified that seasonality influences the price, I suggested an increase of 0.30% in the purchase price when it is spring and 0.20% when it is summer and 10% in the rest of the properties that do not fit into these scenarios.
Finally, it was possible to identify deals that result in a total profit of R$15.981.245,72 for the business perfomance.

# 6.0 Future workds and Improvements
Develop a machine learning model to predict the correct resale value of properties and identify opportunities that we cannot reach through data analysis.
